Stay hungry, stay foolish. - Steve Jobs
Talk is cheap. Show me the code. - Linus Torvalds
First, solve the problem. Then, write the code. - John Johnson
Code is like humor. When you have to explain it, it’s bad. - Cory House
Make it work, make it right, make it fast. - Kent Beck
Be yourself; everyone else is already taken.
Strive not to be a success, but rather to be of value.
Success is not in what you have, but who you are.
Believe you can and you're halfway there.
Dream big and dare to fail.
Turn your wounds into wisdom.
Act as if what you do makes a difference. It does.
Success usually comes to those who are too busy to be looking for it.
Don't be afraid to give up the good to go for the great.
I find that the harder I work, the more luck I seem to have.
Opportunities don't happen. You create them.
Try not to become a man of success. Rather become a man of value.
It does not matter how slowly you go as long as you do not stop.
Success is walking from failure to failure with no loss of enthusiasm.
All progress takes place outside the comfort zone.
Success is not the key to happiness. Happiness is the key to success.
The way to get started is to quit talking and begin doing.
The successful warrior is the average man, with laser-like focus.
Don't watch the clock; do what it does. Keep going.
Great minds discuss ideas; average minds discuss events; small minds discuss people.
Everything you’ve ever wanted is on the other side of fear.
Quality is not an act, it is a habit.
You are never too old to set another goal or to dream a new dream.
If you can dream it, you can do it.
Only those who dare to fail greatly can ever achieve greatly.
The best revenge is massive success.
Do what you can, with what you have, where you are.
Start where you are. Use what you have. Do what you can.
I am not a product of my circumstances. I am a product of my decisions.
You miss 100% of the shots you don’t take.
Hardships often prepare ordinary people for an extraordinary destiny.
Believe in yourself and all that you are.
It always seems impossible until it’s done.
Push yourself, because no one else is going to do it for you.
Keep going. Everything you need will come to you at the perfect time.
Failure will never overtake me if my determination to succeed is strong enough.
Success is what happens after you have survived all your mistakes.
Be so good they can't ignore you.
Don't let yesterday take up too much of today.
Success is not final, failure is not fatal: It is the courage to continue that counts.
Never give up on a dream just because of the time it will take to accomplish it.
Small deeds done are better than great deeds planned.
Start each day with a positive thought and a grateful heart.
You don’t have to be great to start, but you have to start to be great.
Doubt kills more dreams than failure ever will.
Your limitation—it’s only your imagination.
Sometimes we’re tested not to show our weaknesses, but to discover our strengths.
Great things never come from comfort zones.
Push through pain and conquer your goals.
Do something today that your future self will thank you for.
It’s going to be hard, but hard does not mean impossible.
Make each day your masterpiece.
What you get by achieving your goals is not as important as what you become by achieving your goals.
If you want to fly, give up everything that weighs you down.
Go the extra mile, it’s never crowded.
With the new day comes new strength and new thoughts.
You are capable of more than you know.
Stay away from those people who try to disparage your ambitions.
Energy and persistence conquer all things.
Learn as if you will live forever, live like you will die tomorrow.
Success is getting what you want. Happiness is wanting what you get.
I never dreamed about success. I worked for it.
Never limit yourself because of others’ limited imagination.
Work hard in silence. Let success make the noise.
Be the change that you wish to see in the world.
Do not go where the path may lead, go instead where there is no path and leave a trail.
Happiness is not something readymade. It comes from your own actions.
Success is the sum of small efforts, repeated day-in and day-out.
Do not wait for opportunity. Create it.
The only place where success comes before work is in the dictionary.
Success isn’t always about greatness. It’s about consistency.
Success is where preparation and opportunity meet.
A goal without a plan is just a wish.
Don’t count the days, make the days count.
The harder you work for something, the greater you’ll feel when you achieve it.
Don’t stop when you’re tired. Stop when you’re done.
Little things make big days.
Wake up with determination. Go to bed with satisfaction.
It’s not whether you get knocked down. It’s whether you get up.
The future depends on what you do today.
Success is not how high you have climbed, but how you make a positive difference to the world.
You don’t need to see the whole staircase, just take the first step.
Act as if what you do makes a difference. It does.
To be the best, you must be able to handle the worst.
Don’t wish it were easier. Wish you were better.
Great things are done by a series of small things brought together.
Success is liking yourself, liking what you do, and liking how you do it.
Either you run the day, or the day runs you.
It’s not about ideas. It’s about making ideas happen.
You are braver than you believe, stronger than you seem and smarter than you think.
Be not afraid of going slowly, be afraid only of standing still.
You just can’t beat the person who never gives up.
Courage doesn’t always roar. Sometimes courage is the quiet voice at the end of the day saying, ‘I will try again tomorrow.’
Keep your face always toward the sunshine—and shadows will fall behind you.
Action is the foundational key to all success.
Don’t let what you cannot do interfere with what you can do.
The man who has confidence in himself gains the confidence of others.